feat: operator and ske upgrade docs (#164)
syntasso/kratix-docs: docs/ske/01-kratix/10-configuring-ske/12-via-manifest.mdx

---
title: Via Manifests
description: Documentation on how to install the SKE-Operator via the operator manifest directly
---

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

  creationTimestamp: null
  name: ske-operator
  namespace: kratix-platform-system
data:
  config: |
    releaseStorage:
      path: # path within the git repository or bucket to look for releases
      # one of: git or bucket
      git:
        secretName: # the name of the secret containing the git credentials
        repo: # the git repository to look for releases
        branch: # the branch to look for releases
      bucket:
        name: # the name of the bucket to look for releases
        endpoint: # the endpoint of the bucket
        region: # the region of the bucket
        secretName: # optional: the name of the secret containing the credentials to access the bucket
    imageRegistry:
      host: # the host of the image registry
      pullSecret: # optional: the name of the secret containing the image registry credentials
      platformImage: # the image of the platform
      pipelineImage: # the image of the pipeline adapter
```

Refer to the [air-gapped installations](./air-gapped) section for more
information on how to configure the underlying storage and image registry, as
well as the expected structure of the referenced secrets.

## Deploying the SKE Operator

> With all of the pre-requisites in place, the platform is now ready to deploy the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all of the prerequisites in place, the platform is now ready to deploy the
```

### Upgrade checks

The SKE Operator will perform [pre-upgrade checks](./ske-operator#pre-upgrade-checks)
and [post-upgrade checks](./ske-operator#post-upgrade-checks) as part of the upgrade flow.

To skip these checks, you can add the
`ske.syntasso.io/skip-all-upgrade-checks` label when updating your `.spec.version`:

```yaml
apiVersion: platform.syntasso.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kratix
metadata:
  name: my-kratix
  #highlight-start
  labels:
    ske.syntasso.io/skip-all-upgrade-checks: "true"
  #highlight-end
spec:
  version: v0.100.0 # New desired version
```

:::tip
Skipping checks can be useful when you need to upgrade SKE while its current state is
unhealthy.
:::

### Handling failures

If any upgrade step fails, the SKE Operator will continue looping its reconciliation of
the Kratix resource to pick up any manual fixes. See the section on [handling
failures](../ske-operator#handling-failures) for more details.

## Deleting SKE Operator

To delete the SKE Operator (and any deployed SKE instance), run the following command:

```bash
kubectl delete -f http://s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/syntasso-enterprise-releases/ske-operator/<VERSION>/ske-operator-distribution.yaml
```

:::warning

> This will delete the SKE Operator and any deployed SKE instance.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this will delete all created resource requests and promises as well?
